README.md, before:

# UZP-CLI - User's Zecure Pocket
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/uzp-cli.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/uzp-cli)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/uzp-cli.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uzp-cli)

A professional command-line tool for securely storing and managing sensitive information such as API keys, access tokens, and service credentials. All data is encrypted using AES-256-GCM and stored locally.

## Features

- 🔐 **AES-256-GCM encryption** for maximum security
- 🔑 **Master password protection** with scrypt key derivation  
- 🔄 **Auto-unlock** - no session management needed
- 📋 **Clipboard integration** with automatic clearing
- 🔍 **Search functionality** for quick access
- 📁 **Project-based organization** of secrets
- 📄 **Environment file export** (.env generation)
- 🌍 **Cross-platform support** (macOS, Linux, Windows)

## Installation

### NPM (Recommended)

```bash
npm install -g uzp-cli
```

### Other Package Managers

```bash
# Yarn
yarn global add uzp-cli

# PNPM  
pnpm add -g uzp-cli

# Bun
bun add -g uzp-cli
```

### Manual Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hungnguyen18/uzp-cli.git
cd uzp-cli
go build -o uzp
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize vault

```bash
uzp init
```

Creates a new encrypted vault with your master password.

### 2. Add secrets

```bash
uzp add
```

Follow the prompts to add project/key/value. Example:
- Project: `myapp`
- Key: `api_key` 
- Value: `sk-1234567890abcdef`

### 3. Use secrets

```bash
# Get a specific secret
uzp get myapp/api_key

# Copy to clipboard
uzp copy myapp/api_key

# Export as .env file
uzp inject -p myapp > .env
```

## Commands

### Core Commands

| Command | Description | Example |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `uzp init` | Initialize new vault | `uzp init` |
| `uzp add` | Add a secret | `uzp add` |
| `uzp get <project/key>` | Get secret value | `uzp get myapp/api_key` |
| `uzp list` | List all secrets | `uzp list` |
| `uzp inject -p <project>` | Export to .env format | `uzp inject -p myapp > .env` |

### Additional Commands

| Command | Description | Example |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `uzp update <project/key>` | Update existing secret | `uzp update myapp/api_key` |
| `uzp copy <project/key>` | Copy to clipboard | `uzp copy myapp/api_key` |
| `uzp search <keyword>` | Search secrets | `uzp search api` |
| `uzp reset` | Delete all data | `uzp reset` |

### Environment File Export

```bash
# Export to .env file
uzp inject -p myapp > .env

# Export to custom file  
uzp inject -p backend > backend.env

# Preview in terminal
uzp inject -p myapp
```

**Output format:**
```bash
# Environment variables for project: myapp
# Generated by uzp

API_KEY=your_secret_value
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@host:5432/db
CLIENT_SECRET=oauth_client_secret
```

## Auto-Unlock

UZP automatically prompts for your master password when needed - no manual unlock required. Simply run any command and enter your password if prompted.

```bash
# No need to unlock first - just use directly
uzp get myapp/api_key
# Enter master password: [prompted automatically]
```

## Security

- **Encryption**: AES-256-GCM for data encryption
- **Key Derivation**: scrypt with secure parameters (N=32768, r=8, p=1)
- **Password Protection**: Master password never stored, only its hash
- **Clipboard Safety**: Automatic clearing after TTL
- **File Permissions**: Vault file created with 0600 permissions

## Storage Location

The vault is stored at:
- macOS/Linux: `~/.uzp/uzp.vault`
- Windows: `%USERPROFILE%\.uzp\uzp.vault`

## Examples

### Typical Workflow

```bash
# 1. Initialize vault (one time)
uzp init

# 2. Add secrets for different projects
uzp add  # myapp/api_key
uzp add  # myapp/database_url
uzp add  # aws/access_key_id
uzp add  # aws/secret_access_key

# 3. Use secrets in your projects
uzp inject -p myapp > .env
uzp inject -p aws > aws.env

# 4. Get individual secrets when needed
uzp get myapp/api_key
uzp copy aws/access_key_id
```

### Development Workflow

```bash
# View all secrets
uzp list

# Search for specific secrets
uzp search database
uzp search aws

# Update existing secrets
uzp update myapp/api_key

# Generate environment files for different environments
uzp inject -p myapp > .env.local
uzp inject -p myapp-prod > .env.production
```



## Key Features

### Security Best Practices
- **AES-256-GCM encryption**: Industry-standard encryption
- **scrypt key derivation**: Secure password-based key derivation
- **No password storage**: Only password hash stored for verification
- **Secure file permissions**: Vault file created with 0600 permissions
- **Memory safety**: Passwords cleared from memory after use

### Developer-Friendly
- **Environment file generation**: Perfect for development workflows
- **Project-based organization**: Group secrets by application/service
- **Search functionality**: Quickly find secrets across projects
- **Clipboard integration**: Secure copy with automatic clearing

## License

MIT License

## Security Notice

- ⚠️ **Never share your master password**
- 🔒 **Keep your vault file (`~/.uzp/uzp.vault`) secure**
- 💾 **Regularly backup your vault file**
- 🔑 **Use a strong, unique master password (8+ characters)**
- 🚫 **Don't store your master password in scripts or files**

## Support

For issues, questions, or feature requests, please create an issue on GitHub.

Commit message:

enhance: improve .gitignore security and best practices
- Add comprehensive Node.js patterns from official template
- Include NPM configuration security (.npmrc now ignored)
- Add Terraform, additional crypto file patterns
- Create .npmrc.example template for registry configuration
- Update README.md with NPM registry configuration guide
- Remove tracked .npmrc file for better security practice

Security improvements:
- Protect NPM tokens and configuration
- Add more cryptographic file patterns
- Include development and deployment artifact patterns
- Comprehensive coverage for open source projects

README.md, after:

# UZP-CLI - User's Zecure Pocket
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/uzp-cli.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/uzp-cli)
[![npm downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/uzp-cli.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uzp-cli)

A professional command-line tool for securely storing and managing sensitive information such as API keys, access tokens, and service credentials. All data is encrypted using AES-256-GCM and stored locally.

## Features

- 🔐 **AES-256-GCM encryption** for maximum security
- 🔑 **Master password protection** with scrypt key derivation  
- 🔄 **Auto-unlock** - no session management needed
- 📋 **Clipboard integration** with automatic clearing
- 🔍 **Search functionality** for quick access
- 📁 **Project-based organization** of secrets
- 📄 **Environment file export** (.env generation)
- 🌍 **Cross-platform support** (macOS, Linux, Windows)

## Installation

### NPM (Recommended)

```bash
npm install -g uzp-cli
```

### Other Package Managers

```bash
# Yarn
yarn global add uzp-cli

# PNPM  
pnpm add -g uzp-cli

# Bun
bun add -g uzp-cli
```

### Manual Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hungnguyen18/uzp-cli.git
cd uzp-cli
go build -o uzp
```

### NPM Registry Configuration

If you need to use a specific NPM registry:

```bash
# Copy the example configuration
cp .npmrc.example .npmrc

# Edit .npmrc with your registry settings
# Note: .npmrc is ignored by git for security
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Initialize vault

```bash
uzp init
```

Creates a new encrypted vault with your master password.

### 2. Add secrets

```bash
uzp add
```

Follow the prompts to add project/key/value. Example:
- Project: `myapp`
- Key: `api_key` 
- Value: `sk-1234567890abcdef`

### 3. Use secrets

```bash
# Get a specific secret
uzp get myapp/api_key

# Copy to clipboard
uzp copy myapp/api_key

# Export as .env file
uzp inject -p myapp > .env
```

## Commands

### Core Commands

| Command | Description | Example |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `uzp init` | Initialize new vault | `uzp init` |
| `uzp add` | Add a secret | `uzp add` |
| `uzp get <project/key>` | Get secret value | `uzp get myapp/api_key` |
| `uzp list` | List all secrets | `uzp list` |
| `uzp inject -p <project>` | Export to .env format | `uzp inject -p myapp > .env` |

### Additional Commands

| Command | Description | Example |
|---------|-------------|---------|
| `uzp update <project/key>` | Update existing secret | `uzp update myapp/api_key` |
| `uzp copy <project/key>` | Copy to clipboard | `uzp copy myapp/api_key` |
| `uzp search <keyword>` | Search secrets | `uzp search api` |
| `uzp reset` | Delete all data | `uzp reset` |

### Environment File Export

```bash
# Export to .env file
uzp inject -p myapp > .env

# Export to custom file  
uzp inject -p backend > backend.env

# Preview in terminal
uzp inject -p myapp
```

**Output format:**
```bash
# Environment variables for project: myapp
# Generated by uzp

API_KEY=your_secret_value
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:pass@host:5432/db
CLIENT_SECRET=oauth_client_secret
```

## Auto-Unlock

UZP automatically prompts for your master password when needed - no manual unlock required. Simply run any command and enter your password if prompted.

```bash
# No need to unlock first - just use directly
uzp get myapp/api_key
# Enter master password: [prompted automatically]
```

## Security

- **Encryption**: AES-256-GCM for data encryption
- **Key Derivation**: scrypt with secure parameters (N=32768, r=8, p=1)
- **Password Protection**: Master password never stored, only its hash
- **Clipboard Safety**: Automatic clearing after TTL
- **File Permissions**: Vault file created with 0600 permissions

## Storage Location

The vault is stored at:
- macOS/Linux: `~/.uzp/uzp.vault`
- Windows: `%USERPROFILE%\.uzp\uzp.vault`

## Examples

### Typical Workflow

```bash
# 1. Initialize vault (one time)
uzp init

# 2. Add secrets for different projects
uzp add  # myapp/api_key
uzp add  # myapp/database_url
uzp add  # aws/access_key_id
uzp add  # aws/secret_access_key

# 3. Use secrets in your projects
uzp inject -p myapp > .env
uzp inject -p aws > aws.env

# 4. Get individual secrets when needed
uzp get myapp/api_key
uzp copy aws/access_key_id
```

### Development Workflow

```bash
# View all secrets
uzp list

# Search for specific secrets
uzp search database
uzp search aws

# Update existing secrets
uzp update myapp/api_key

# Generate environment files for different environments
uzp inject -p myapp > .env.local
uzp inject -p myapp-prod > .env.production
```



## Key Features

### Security Best Practices
- **AES-256-GCM encryption**: Industry-standard encryption
- **scrypt key derivation**: Secure password-based key derivation
- **No password storage**: Only password hash stored for verification
- **Secure file permissions**: Vault file created with 0600 permissions
- **Memory safety**: Passwords cleared from memory after use

### Developer-Friendly
- **Environment file generation**: Perfect for development workflows
- **Project-based organization**: Group secrets by application/service
- **Search functionality**: Quickly find secrets across projects
- **Clipboard integration**: Secure copy with automatic clearing

## License

MIT License

## Security Notice

- ⚠️ **Never share your master password**
- 🔒 **Keep your vault file (`~/.uzp/uzp.vault`) secure**
- 💾 **Regularly backup your vault file**
- 🔑 **Use a strong, unique master password (8+ characters)**
- 🚫 **Don't store your master password in scripts or files**

## Support

For issues, questions, or feature requests, please create an issue on GitHub.
